p8105_hw2_cn2604
================
2022-09-27

# Problem 1

The primary variables of this dataset are the name and location of the
stations, their divisions and lines with different routes, the types of
entrance and their locations. Other additional information such as
presence of staffs, vending, ADA, and crossing over are also provided.
My **cleaning steps** are 1) Read the csv documents and clean the names
with janitor. 2) Convert *entry* variable to logical variable, *corner*,
*staffing*, *entrance_type*, and *division* to factor variables, and
convert *route8* to *route11* to character variables. 3) To make tidy
data by separating the variables of *route_name* and *route_number* with
pivot_longer function. 4) Combine the column of *station_name* and
*line* to *unique_station_name* as a mark the station.

This processed dataset has 20548 rows and 22 columns. Since the
variables of *route_name* and *route_number* are manipulated to make
each column a variable and each row an observation, data in this set are
now tidy.

There are 465 unique stations and 84 of them are ADA compliant. 0.44 of
the stations without vending allow entrance.

61 distinct stations serve A train and 18 of them are ADA compliant.

# Problem 2

There are 568 observations and 15 variables. The keys variables are the
datetime for each dumpsters and different categories of trash including
plastic bottles, polystyrene, cigarette butts, and sports balls etc. The
volume occupied and total weight for each dumpster are also recorded.

The total trash weight collected by Professor Trash Wheel is 162.54
tons. The total number of sports balls collected by Mr.Trash Wheel in
2020 is 856.

# Problem 3

The dataset of **pols-month** has 822 observations and 9 variables after
cleaning process. The year range is between 1947 and 2015. The important
variables are president, gov_gop, sen_gop, rep_gop, gov_dem, sen_dem,
rep_dem, which specifies the political party of the president, number of
governors, senators, and representatives at that time.

The dataset of **snp** has 787 observations and 3 variables after
cleaning process. The year range is between 2000 and 2099. The important
variable is close, which shows the closing values of the S&P stock index
at that time.

The dataset of **unempolyment** has 816 observations and 3 variables
after cleaning process. The year range is between 1948 and 2015. The
important variable is unemployment_rate, which shows the unemployment
rate at that time.

The **final combined** dataset of has 186 observations and 11 variables
after cleaning process. The year range is between 2000 and 2015. The
important variable is president, gov_gop, sen_gop, rep_gop, gov_dem,
sen_dem, rep_dem, close, unemployment_rate, which contains all of the
informations from the datasets above and the time.
